A computer system consists of hardware and systems software that work together
to run application programs. Specific implementations of systems change over
time, but the underlying concepts do not. All computer systems have similar
hardware and software components that perform similar functions.

Figure 1.1. The hello program

#include <stdio.h>

int main()
{
    printf("hello, world\n");
    return 0;
}

Our hello program begins life as a source program (or source file) that the
programmer creates with an editor and saves in a text file called hello.c. The
source program is a sequence of bits, each with a value of 0 or 1, organized
in 8-bit chunks called bytes. Each byte represents some text character in the
program. Files such as hello.c that consist exclusively of ASCII characters
are known as text files. All other files are known as binary files.

1.2. Programs are translated by other programs into different forms

On a Unix system, the translation from source file to object file is performed
by a compiler driver:

Figure 1.3 The compilation system

hello.c (source program, text) -> preprocessor -> hello.i (modified source program) -> compiler -> hello.s (Assembly program (text)) -> assembler -> (printf.o, hello.o) (relocatable object programs, binary) -> linker -> hello (executable object program (binary))

Preprocessing phase. The preprocessor (cpp) modifies the original C program
according to directives that begin with the # character. For example, the
#include <stdio.h> command in line 1 of hello.c tells the preprocessor
to read the contents of the system header file stdio.h and insert it directly
into the program text. The result is another C program, typically with the .i
suffix.
. Compilation phase. The compiler (cc1) translates the text file hello.i into
the text file hello.s, which contains an assembly-language program. Each
statement in an assembly-language program exactly describes one low-level
machine-language instruction in a standard text form. Assembly language is
useful because it provides a common output language for different compilers
for different high-level languages. For example, C compilers and Fortran
compilers both generate output files in the same assembly language.
. Assembly phase. Next, the assembler (as) translates hello.s into machine-
language instructions, packages them in a form known as a relocatable object
program, and stores the result in the object file hello.o. The hello.o file is
a binary file whose bytes encode machine language instructions rather than
characters. If we were to view hello.o with a text editor, it would appear to
be gibberish.
. Linking phase.Notice that our hello program calls the printf function, which
is part of the standard C library provided by every C compiler. The printf
function resides in a separate precompiled object file called printf.o, which
must somehow be merged with our hello.o program. The linker (ld) handles
this merging. The result is the hello file, which is an executable object file (or
simply executable) that is ready to be loaded into memory and executed by
the system.

1.3. It pays to understand how compilation systems work

Optimizing program performance. Modern compilers are sophisticated tools
that usually produce good code. As programmers, we do not need to know
the inner workings of the compiler in order to write efficient code. However,
in order to make good coding decisions in our C programs, we do need a
basic understanding of machine-level code and how the compiler translates
different C statements into machine code. For example, is a switch statement
always more efficient than a sequence of if-else statements? How much
overhead is incurred by a function call? Is a while loop more efficient than
a for loop? Are pointer references more efficient than array indexes? Why
does our loop run so much faster if we sum into a local variable instead of an
argument that is passed by reference? How can a function run faster when we
simply rearrange the parentheses in an arithmetic expression?

Understanding link-time errors. In our experience, some of the most perplex-
ing programming errors are related to the operation of the linker, especially
when you are trying to build large software systems. For example, what does
it mean when the linker reports that it cannot resolve a reference? What is the
difference between a static variable and a global variable? What happens if
you define two global variables in different C files with the same name? What
is the difference between a static library and a dynamic library? Why does it
matter what order we list libraries on the command line? And scariest of all,
why do some linker-related errors not appear until run time? You will learn
the answers to these kinds of questions in Chapter 7.

Avoiding security holes. For many years, buffer overflow vulnerabilities have
accounted for the majority of security holes in network and Internet servers.
These vulnerabilities exist because too few programmers understand the need
to carefully restrict the quantity and forms of data they accept from untrusted
sources.

1.4 Processes Read and interpret instructions stored in memory
The shell is a command-line interpreter that prints a prompt, waits for you to type a
command line, and then performs the command.

1.4.1 Hardware Organization of a system

To understand what happens to our hello program when we run it, we need
to understand the hardware organization of a typical system, which is shown in
Figure 1.4. This particular picture is modeled after the family of Intel Pentium
systems, but all systems have a similar look and feel.

(Figure 1.4. is in the CS:APP book)

Buses:
Running throughout the system is a collection of electrical conduits called buses
that carry bytes of information back and forth between the components. Buses
are typically designed to transfer fixed-sized chunks of bytes known as words. The
number of bytes in a word (the word size) is a fundamental system parameter that
varies across systems. Most machines today have word sizes of either 4 bytes (32
bits) or 8 bytes (64 bits). For the sake of our discussion here, we will assume a word
size of 4 bytes, and we will assume that buses transfer only one word at a time.

I/O Devices: (Later...)
